Raymund Ramos
Pinole, CA 94564
ram7os@yahoo.com


WORK EXPERIENCE
Yahoo Sunnyvale
Yahoo Ad Exchange / Yahoo Ad Manager Plus
October 2014-present
Sr. Production Engineer

Responsible for maintaining the Yahoo Ad Exchange and Ad Manager Plus
components with 6 other service engineers, 7500+ RHEL6 servers across
environments. Current projects include Chef migration from a
proprietary configuration management system, creating CI/CD pipelines
for grid workflows and webapps, and runbook automation using Chef.

Stack: RHEL6, Java, Scala, Jetty, Hadoop/HDFS, Druid, Zookeeper, 
Helix, Kafka, Git, Docker

---
Yahoo Sunnyvale
RightMedia Exchange [RMX] Adserving
February 2013-September 2014
Service Engineer

Responsible for maintaining the Rightmedia Adserving components with 3 
(to 5 at peak) other service engineers, 5000+ RHEL4/6 servers across 
environments. Chaired the daily scrum meeting. Responsible for bucket 
deploys and promotion to 100% production, which were done by one-click 
jobs in Jenkins. Assisted developers with adserver troubleshooting, 
mostly using tcpdump, gdb, and strace. Developed runbooks to train and 
delegate to NOC.

Stack: RHEL6, MySQL, Adserver written in C++, haproxy, Apache Traffic 
Server, Jenkins, cluster and deployment software written mostly in 
Perl. Some exposure to Hadoop/HDFS, OpenTSDB, Hive, Pig, Chef, Ruby, 
Vagrant, Virtualbox, Test Kitchen, Kanban

---
Yahoo Burbank
RightMedia / my,api.yieldmanager.com
June 2009-January 2013
Service Engineer

Responsible for maintaining RightMedia Application components with 3 
other service engineers, 200+ RHEL4/5 servers across environments. 
https://my.yieldmanager.com was the main site, which is where 
RightMedia clients login, place new ads, run campaigns on the display 
ad exchange. Chaired the Rightmedia daily operations meeting across 
multiple teams, including the MySQL DBAs and technical account 
managers. Prepared for and executed yearly BCP certifications. Worked 
with the vip operations team to create and update rotations on load 
balancers. Oncall rotations were 12/7, shared with the Bangalore team.

Stack: LAMP, and Jive forums running Java/Tomcat, Nagios

---
MyBlogLog, a Yahoo! Inc. service
September 2007-May 2009
Operations Engineer/ Technical Yahoo

My primary responsibility at this position was to manage and maintain 
160 RHEL4 servers. I provided 24/7 support using Hyperic EE monitoring 
software which sends alerts about system and application faults. I 
handled outages with the other MyBlogLog engineers and did a root 
cause analysis to prevent future occurrences of the problem. Outage 
handling also involved coordination with the Yahoo Operations Center 
and Site Operations staff at multiple colos.

Longer term projects included developing server growth plans, working 
with Yahoo storage team to certify backups, implementing and testing 
BCP processes, coordinating with Network Security to migrate from 
colo-level ACLs to host-level firewalls.

Stack: LAMP, memcached, with a few components written in Python and 
Erlang, Hyperic

---
University of California
California Digital Library (cdlib.org)
August 2001-September 2007
Systems Architect / Programmer Analyst III

At this position, I managed 12 Solaris servers, 44 Linux servers (40 
of which form a storage cluster), 2 OS X servers, 1 Windows 2003 
Terminal Server, and 204 Terabytes raw storage in support of CDL's 
development and staging environment. I supervise a contract sysadmin 
who helps me support this environment.

The 44 Linux servers run a variety of Linux distributions: Fedora Core 
4, Fedora Core 5, Debian 3.1, Debian 4.0, SLES 9, and OpenSUSE 10.x.

The storage technologies used for this environment run the whole 
range: from commodity PATA/SATA disks using reiserfs and ext3 
filesystems using LVM or iSCSI, NAS with NFS, direct attached SCSI 
RAID arrays to FC disk RAID arrays zoned on Qlogic SAN switches.

LAMP applications that I've setup and run in production for CDL: 
Wordpress MU, TikiWiki, MoinMoin, phpBB3, and Movable Type.

The 2 OS X servers are used for CDL's intranet server where CDL runs 
WebDAV filesharing with Active Directory authentication.

Other duties in this position are to coordinate with our service
providers for our desktop technical support (Windows and Mac
platforms), server colocation at the UCB campus, production server
system administration, and network administration. I also assist
in-house developers in application setup across development, staging,
and production; and explore, evaluate, and integrate infrastructure
technologies like ZFS and iSCSI.


EDUCATION
Bachelor of Arts in Psychology, completed June 1996
University of California at Santa Cruz
